Even with the great tooling of the serverless framework,
there's a few other tools that you'll want some experience with to save yourself
time while you're creating serverless applications on AWS.
The first is AWS CloudWatch logs.
CloudWatch is a monitoring service for AWS,
and the logs it has for lambda will help you track down
errors that occur during function execution.
While you can run serverless invoke with the --log
flag like we did in an earlier demo,
you can't watch every function execute in your terminal,
so being able to review the logs after the execution will
help you find errors that you missed.
You should also consider using Postman to help test your serverless APIs.
This tool allows you to create and test HTTP requests with JSON text bodies
in order to test your applications are working correctly.
Finally,
I'd also suggest getting familiar with the serverless
framework GitHub Issues section.
Because the framework is evolving so quickly and
adding significant functionality,
that's a great place to look for issues that others might
have already encountered with the framework.
There's also a lot of other resources that we'll take
a look at that are listed there.
In this demo,
we'll get familiar with some of the debugging
methodologies we can use to test our services.
First, we'll make a change to our CRUD API,
which breaks the function that writes the new entries to the database.
Then we'll re-deploy it with that quirk in order to see how
we could investigate and fix the issue.
We'll check to make sure we're forming the request correctly,
and see what responses we're getting back from the API.
We'll do this using both curl and Postman.
Then,
we'll log into the AWS console and review some of the
CloudWatch logs for our broken function.
After that, we'll isolate the problem that we created,
fix the issue, and then redeploy our service.
So let's get to it.
Within our create.
js file, scroll down to line 33.
On that line, go ahead and add an extra t to the end of put.
Don't forget to save the file after you've done this.
Back in the terminal,
you can specify serverless deploy --function and use create for the function.
After this is deployed, be sure you copy down the full URL for the POST endpoint.
Back in Postman,
go ahead and make sure that the API endpoint that you copied down
just now is the same as what's in the section here.
Then change the values for the petName and petBreed that you
were going to add to the database earlier,
and go ahead and hit the Send button.
You should see this message here.
Now internal server error doesn't actually tell us that much information,
but it does us something useful.
It means we have to take a look at the lambda CloudWatch execution logs
to get a little more information about this error.
Back in the AWS console, go ahead and navigate to the lambda section.
In the lambda section, you might have quite a few functions by now,
so go ahead and filter for the word create.
You should then see the function that we have here.
After you've clicked on that, you should see a page that looks like this.
On that page, we'll go to the monitoring section.
If you scroll down slightly in the monitoring section,
you should see an invocation that just resulted in an error.
You can see this on the chart on the far right.
Go ahead and click the View CloudWatch logs button.
These are the log streams for your function invocations.
You can go ahead and look more in depth at specific runs of your
function by clicking on the most recent log stream.
Be sure to sort by the last event time in order to
find that most recent invocation.
This is especially important if you have a lot of logs.
As you can see, the error log information is surfaced here.
You can see there's an error that has to do with
DynamoDB putt not being a function.
Well, this is obviously because we changed it earlier in the module.
In this case, we see that our function started correctly,
but that there was an error within our create function.
Now this function is located at pets/create.
js.
In that file, we also see that the error occurs on line 33 at position 12,
which would indicate exactly where we need to go to fix this issue,
or at least investigate it further.
Now let's go ahead and load that file back up and
delete the extra t and save it.
After we've done that,
we can go ahead and run the serverless or sls deploy
command with the --function flag, and pass in create,
which is the function that we just mangled in order to test it.
Now let's go back to Postman and go ahead and try the same request again.
After we hit send, we should see this response here.
This indicates that we successfully fixed and redeployed our function.
Another important resource for you as you continue to debug
and work with the serverless framework,
is the GitHub page of the serverless framework itself.
This can be found at this URL.
On that page,
you can take a look at GitHub issues and other
information about the framework itself.
You can also navigate to the serverless website at serverless.
com to get the most up-to-date documentation.
You can also look at the serverless framework's forums at forums.
serverless.
com.
Additionally, you can take a look at the gitter.
im for the serverless framework, which can be found at this URL.
If you want more real-time responses,
I'd definitely suggest the community in the gitter.
im page.
In this module, we learned several new serverless concepts.
We learned about multiple-endpoint serverless APIs that
can be used to perform multiple tasks.
We also learned about serverless databases,
and how we can include them within our serverless framework services.
In addition to these concepts, we picked up some new skills.
We implemented a CRUD API that used lambda, the API Gateway, and DynamoDB.
We also deployed a full stack serverless application with data persistence.
And we learned how to use several testing and debugging tools,
including CloudWatch, curl, Postman, and GitHub.
Coming up in the next module,
we'll take a look at multi-platform serverless and what that means, as well as where we can go next after we learned all these concepts.